= Phone
Parsing, validating and creating phone numbers

== Install
You can install the phone library as a gem
    gem sources -a http://gemcutter.org
    gem install phone

Or as a Rails plugin
    script/plugin install git://github.com/carr/phone.git

== Updates in v 1.0

The biggest updating is the namespacing problem fixed that a lot of people were having. You now use phone by refering to 
    
    Phoner::Phone

== Initializing
You can initialize a new phone object with the number, area code, country code and extension number

    Phoner::Phone.new('5125486', '91', '385')
or
    Phoner::Phone.new(:number => '5125486', :area_code => '91', :country_code => '385', :extension => '143')

== Parsing
You can create a new phone object by parsing from a string. Phoner::Phone does it's best to detect the country and area codes:
    Phoner::Phone.parse '+385915125486'
    Phoner::Phone.parse '00385915125486'

If the country or area code isn't given in the string, you must set it, otherwise it doesn't work:
    Phoner::Phone.parse '091/512-5486', :country_code => '385'
    Phoner::Phone.parse '(091) 512 5486', :country_code => '385'
    
If you feel that it's tedious, set the default country code once (in your config/environment.rb):
    Phoner::Phone.default_country_code = '385'    
    Phoner::Phone.parse '091/512-5486'
    Phoner::Phone.parse '(091) 512 5486'    
    
Same goes for the area code:
    Phoner::Phone.parse '451-588', :country_code => '385', :area_code => '47'
or
    Phoner::Phone.default_country_code = '385'  
    Phoner::Phone.default_area_code = '47'
    
    Phoner::Phone.parse '451-588'

=== Automatic country and area code detection
Like it's stated above, Phone does it's best to automatically detect the country and area code while parsing. Do do this, 
phone uses data stored in <tt>data/countries.yml</tt>.

Each country code can have a regular expression named <tt>area_code</tt> that describes how the area code for that 
particular country looks like.

If an <tt>area_code</tt> regular expression isn't specified, the default, <tt>Phoner::Phone::DEFAULT_AREA_CODE</tt> (correct for
the US) is used.

== Validating
Validating is very relaxed, basically it strips out everything that's not a number or '+' character:
    Phoner::Phone.valid? 'blabla 091/512-5486 blabla'
    
== Formatting
Formating is done via the <tt>format</tt> method. The method accepts a <tt>Symbol</tt> or a <tt>String</tt>.

When given a string, it interpolates the string with the following fields:

* %c - country_code (385)
* %a - area_code (91)
* %A - area_code with leading zero (091)
* %n - number (5125486)
* %f - first @@n1_length characters of number (configured through Phoner::Phone.n1_length), default is 3 (512)
* %l - last characters of number (5486)
* %x - the extension number

    pn = Phoner::Phone.parse('+385915125486')
    pn.to_s # => "+385915125486"
    pn.format("%A/%f-%l") # => "091/512-5486"
    pn.format("+ %c (%a) %n") # => "+ 385 (91) 5125486"

When given a symbol it is used as a lookup for the format in the <tt>Phoner::Phone.named_formats</tt> hash.
    pn.format(:europe) # => "+385 (0) 91 512 5486"
    pn.format(:us) # => "(234) 123 4567"    
    pn.format(:default_with_extension) # => "+3851234567x143"    

You can add your own custom named formats like so:
    Phoner::Phone.named_formats[:short] = '%A/%n1-%n2'    
    pn.format(:short) # => 091/512-5486

== Finding countries by their isocode
If you don't have the country code, but you know from other sources what country a phone is from, you can retrieve the country using the country isocode (such as 'de', 'es', 'us', ...).

    if country = Phoner::Country.find_by_country_isocode(user_country_isocode)
      phone_number = Phoner::Phone.parse(user_input, :country_code => country.country_code)
    end

You have to remember to run Phoner::Country.load method before though.

= TODO
Parse testing for different countries. 

Currently tested on: 
[AU] Australia
[BA] Bosnia and Herzegovina
[BE] Belgium
[DE] Germany
[ES] Spain
[FR] France
[GB] United Kingdom
[HR] Croatia
[HU] Hungary
[NL] Netherlands
[RS] Serbia
[SE] Sweden
[SI] Slovenia
[UA] Ukraine
[US] United States
[ZA] South Africa

= Known issues
There's an issue with Germany and Spanish area codes.

= Author
Copyright © 2010 Tomislav Car, {Infinum}[http://www.infinumdigital.com]

= Contributors
Don Morrison, Michael Squires, Todd Eichel (Fooala, Inc.), chipiga, Etienne Samson, Luke Randall, Jakob Hilden, Tieg Zaharia

